## Building a React Native APP First Time

1. [NodeJs](https://nodejs.org/en) must be installed
2. Run `npm install -g expo-cli` to install `Expo` platform. Is not official platform but simplifies some steps.
3. `expo init projectname`
4. `cd projectname`
5. To launch, `expo start`. Will ask you for ways to open the project. `w` to open web browser. It will suggest to instal `react-native-web` and `react-dom` packages.
    - By scanning QR code on phone with `expo go` app on Android, app can be launched directly on phone.
6. Main code is placed on `App.js`

## About React Native
- React-native, like React, is based on components to promote reusability.
    - Props can be passed to componentes like `<Component text = "test"/>` and accesed by `{props.text}`
- [Components and apis](https://reactnative.dev/docs/components-and-apis)
- Styles are created by using `Stylesheet` and must be imported from `react-native` too

## Packages
- [To use icons included when an Expo project is started](https://icons.expo.fyi/)
    1. Search icon
    2. Click on the icon and get import and use codes
- Async storage to small key value storage `npm install @react-native-async-storage/async-storage`
    - Storage is accesed by Key, and path on device is defined by the library itself.

## Deployment with Expo
1. `npm install -g eas-cli`
2. Is needed an [Expo](https://expo.dev/) account. Then `eas login` with username and password
3. `eas build:configure` and choose platform. 
4. For Android APK deploy, change on `eas.json` that was generated by the `build:config` command:  
    ```
    "preview": {
        "android": {
            "buildType": "apk"
        }
    }
    ```
5. To run the build `eas build -p android --profile preview` where profile gets changes made to buildType APK.
    This command is using the tier account you're using on Expo
6. On Linux, it's possible to build locally the app `eas build --local -p android --profile preview`

## Android Studio Emulate
1. Disable HyperV on Windows => Windows Features => Search HyperV and uncheck it
2. Install [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)
3. Run the simulator on Android Studio => Tools => Device Manager and run the simulator
4. `expo start -c` to delete cached data and choose Android
5. First time of launch, expo will be installed on simulator
    - If it doesn't work, when `expo start -c` command, type `?` and `shift+a` to select device or emulator and choose the emulator.